---
layout: post
title: "Hello, world!"
excerpt: "My first post on GitHub Pages with Jekyll."
date: 2014-12-03T21:47:57+05:45
redirect_from: "/2014/12/hello-world/"
---

This is my first an example blog post which is generated by Jekyll and hosted on GitHub Pages that I'm putting together to, well, show what a blog post would look like on this fine Web establishment.

I've finally migrated this to [GitHub Pages](//pages.github.com) using an awesome open source project [Jekyll](//jekyllrb.com) a static blog generator created by [Tom Preston-Werner](//github.com/mojombo).

> Jekyll is a parsing engine bundled as a ruby gem used to build static websites from dynamic components such as templates, partials, liquid code, markdown, etc. Jekyll is known as "a simple, blog aware, static site generator".

Over time, I grew to really dislike how heavy-weight other CMS platform is. I dislike how WYSIWYG editors make it really hard to see what HTML is being generated and tend to bloat the code that is produced. I found different CMS platform uses more and more plugins which make the site weight heavy and slow. In CMS platform, I was not able to do more of what I want to do.

So when I came to learned about Jekyll, I found out that it is the great alternative. I like the idea that my entire blog is a set of static files. Besides its simplicity and light weighted, it makes backups so much easier and avoids most common security concerns caused by running dynamic websites. I could even write my post in [Markdown](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) or [Textile](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Textile_(markup_language)) which is the easiest way of writing post.

It is automatically transformed by Jekyll into a static site whenever I push this repository to GitHub.
Now on my blog 

I was tired of having my blog posts end up in a database off on some remote server. That is backwards. I’ve lost valuable posts that way. I want to author my posts locally in Textile or Markdown. My blog should be easily stylable and customizable any way I please. It should take care of creating a feed for me. And most of all, my site should be stored on GitHub so that I never lose data again.

I think this is the future of blogging in 21st century with Jekyll which gives great control of our contents.

### Why I love Jekyll

#### Simplicity

Jekyll strips everything down to the bare minimum, eliminating a lot of complexity:

* No database
Unlike WordPress and other content management systems (CMS), Jekyll doesn't have a database. All posts and pages are converted to static HTML prior to publication. This is great for loading speed because no database calls are made when a page is loaded.

* No CMS
Simply write all of your content in Markdown, and Jekyll will run it through templates to generate your static website. GitHub can serve as a CMS if needed because you can edit content on it.

* Fast
Jekyll is fast because, being stripped down and without a database, you're just serving up static pages. My base theme, Jekyll Now, makes only three HTTP requests --- including the profile picture and social icons!

* Minimal
Your Jekyll website will include absolutely no functionality or features that you aren’t using.

#### Design control

Spend less time wrestling with complex templates written by other people, and more time creating your own theme or customizing an uncomplicated base theme.

#### Security

The vast majority of vulnerabilities that affect platforms like WordPress don't exist because Jekyll has no CMS, database or PHP. So, you don’t have to spend as much time installing security updates.

#### Convenient hosting

Convenient if you already use GitHub, that is. GitHub Pages will build and host your Jekyll website at no charge, while simultaneously handling version control.
